Image editor (Workshop bounty) (#1484)
hackclub/hackclub: workshops/image_editor/README.md

---
name: 'Image Editor'
description: 'Make your own image editor'
author: '@wollygfx'
img: 'https://cloud-81e0x4zt3.vercel.app/0image.png'
---

> In this workshop you'll learn how to make a very simple image editor using [CSS Filters](https://www.w3.org/TR/filter-effects/) , [jQuery](https://jquery.com) and [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.5/getting-started/introduction/) . Follow along with me and see how easy it is!

Reviewer: Grammar is a bit off in the last sentence there.

Author: Fixed with grammarly.

<details><summary>Here's how our HTML document looks so far:</summary>  
  
```html
<div class="container-fluid">

  <!--Section #1-->
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-md-12 text-center mb-3 mt-3">
      <form id="imgurl">
        <input type="text" placeholder="Image URL" id="onlineurl">
        <button type="submit">Change Image</button>
      </form>
    </div>
  </div>
  
  <!--Section #2-->
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-md-4">
    </div>
    <div class="col-md-4">
    </div>
    <div class="col-md-4">
    </div>
  </div>

    <!--Section #3-->
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-md-4">
    </div>
    <div class="col-md-4">
    </div>
    <div class="col-md-4">
    </div>
  </div>
  
</div>
```
</details>

![Section 1 Result](https://cloud-cwwxoedf8.vercel.app/0section1.png)

## Section 2
In section 2 we'll just have to add an image tag inside of the **second column** of the **second row**:
```html
<!--Section #2-->
<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-4">
  </div>
  <div class="col-md-4 text-center">
    <img src="https://assets.hackclub.com/flag-orpheus-top.svg" id="targetimage" alt="">
  </div>
  <div class="col-md-4">
  </div>
</div>
```

> - The class ```text-center``` as seen before, keeps all the elements in the center.

Reviewer: text-center will only center the text right? and not ALL the elements. So I think that's a bit wrong to say "all the elements to center"

Author: No, it actually centers the elements.

          </p>

          <p>
            <label for="sepia">Sepia</label>
            <input id="sepia" name="sepia" type="range" min="0" max="" value="0" class="slider">
          </p>
            
          <button type="reset" class="btn btn-primary" >Reset</button>
        </form>
    </div>
    <div class="col-md-4">
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
```
</details>

![Section 3 Result](https://cloud-jwbtp72pu.vercel.app/0screen_shot_2020-11-11_at_12.33.02_pm.png)

# CSS
The Boostrap stylesheet we added at the beginning of this workshop gives us most of the styling we need. But let's do a little bit of our own customizing.

Open the `style.css` file on the sidebar on the left. Then, add:

```css
img {
  width: 400px;
}

#section_three {
  border: 2px solid black; 
}
```
Let's break this down:
- First, we set `400px` as the default width for every image we edit because some images can be too big and otherwise might not fit on the website.
- Then, we add a border to the section 3 to make it look a little bit better.

Here's the result:

![CSS Result](https://cloud-i0vj1gzw6.vercel.app/0image.png)

> Repl.it should have automatically linked the `style.css` file for you, but if you don't see your changes reflect when you click the green "Run" button at the top, try adding this line to the `<head>` in your `index.html` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Repl.it should have automatically linked the `style.css` file for you, but if you don't see your changes reflect when you click the green "Run" button at the top, make sure you have this line in the `<head>` in your `index.html` file:
```

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">
```

# JavaScript
This is my favorite part of the workshop, because this part makes the website actually work.

Navigate to the `script.js` file in your sidebar. Then, create these 3 variables:

```javascript
let myForm = document.getElementById('imgurl');
let targetImage = document.getElementById('targetimage');
let inputRange = document.querySelectorAll('.slider');
```
- The first and second variable will hold html elements, we get those elements using the method ```document.getElementById('')```. So those variables will hold the form in section 1 and the image in section 2 respectively.

> - In the third variable, you'll find `document.querySelectorAll` returns a NodeList, a special type of list of elements, that will contain the amount of elements with  `class=slider` in the document. So the 3rd variable contains the value of all the range inputs in the section 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the third variable, you'll find `document.querySelectorAll` returns a NodeList, a special type of list of elements, that will contain the amount of elements with the class of `slider` in the document. So the 3rd variable contains the value of all the range inputs in the section 3.
```

Next, we want to trigger some JavaScript code to run when the form is submitted. Under the three variables, add the following code:

```js
myForm.addEventListener('submit', function(e) {
  let urlImage = document.getElementById('onlineurl');
  let urlImageval = urlImage.value;
  if(urlImageval.length){
    targetImage.setAttribute('src',urlImageval);
      urlImage.value = '';
  }
    
  e.preventDefault();
  console.log('Image displayed');
});
```

Let's break this down:
We are using the method ```addEventListener()``` to the first variable that we created, when the button in the form is submitted we call a function that:
1. Creates a variable that holds the text input that we placed in section 1.

> 2. Creates another variable that will get the data gotten from the text input, we do this using the **value** property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Creates another variable that will hold the data we get from the text input, we do this using the **`value`** property.
```

- If the condition is true, for each input it adds an event listener to it, and when the event happens, the `editImage` function gets called.
- If the condition is false, we stop the loop.

 In order to get to the next iteration, we add one to `i` using `i++`.

Now we'll create a function that takes the values from the range inputs, and then update the style of the image applying the css filter function using those values:

```js
function editImage() {
  let gs = document.getElementById('gs');
  let blur = document.getElementById('blur');
  let huerotate = document.getElementById('hue-rotate');
  let sepia = document.getElementById('sepia');

  let gsval = gs.value;
  let blurval = blur.value;
  let huerotateval = huerotate.value;
  let sepiaval = sepia.value;

  targetImage.style.filter = 'grayscale('+gsval+'%) blur('+blurval+'px) hue-rotate('+huerotateval+'deg) sepia('+sepiaval+'%)';
}
```
Breaking down:
1. The first 4 variables hold the range inputs from the HTML document using the method: ```document.getElementById('')``` 

> 2. The another 4 variables take those range inputs and get them actual values, using the `value` property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The next 4 variables take those range inputs and get their actual values, using the `value` property
```
